# Designing and Implementing a Novel Solar Panel Tracker Leveraging Reinforcement Learning Technique
As of today, the average efficiency of household solar panels is around 20 percent, which means only around 20 percent of solar energy is converted into household electricity. Our goal is to explore various techniques that not only enhance this efficiency but also are scalable for thousands of households. In order to achieve this goal, we plan to use reinforcement learning technique that provides the underpinning centralized intelligence for controlling a large set of trackers for household solar panels. Reinforcement learning is a proven machine learning technique to explore unknown environment with the goal of maximizing a reward. This is particularly desirable because each household's environment is different. On top of that, reinforcement learning does not require any pre-training which makes it rather suitable for a potential large-scale application. In this project, we designed and implemented a reinforcement learning technique for a solar panel tracker that adjusts the solar panel’s orientations to maximize the sun ray receptance throughout a day. The smart tracker explores an optimal orientation, taking into account of the variations in the environmental factors such as the sun’s location, shade caused by obstacles like trees, clouds, and dust. To demonstrate the effectiveness of our solution, we placed two identical solar panels side-by-side. One is mounted on our solar panel tracker; the other has a fixed position. We then collected voltage measurements from both solar panels at identical time intervals between 8 AM to 5 PM each day. We repeated the same benchmark testing for several days. Our benchmark testing results have shown that the solar panel with our smart tracker consistently offers better electricity voltage output than the one without. 
